## Sample Conversion

Now we will simulate the playing of an audio samples wave file. Use standard c file I/O functions (```fopen```, ```fclose```, ```fread```, ```fseek```) to read the samples from the file,  convert and pass them into the skeleton ```fifo_transmit_word``` function.

Recollect from the [audio setup](https://neu-ece-4534.github.io/audio.html) that audio samples inserted into the AXI FIFO are transmitted by the I2S controller to the CODEC, which converts them into analog audio signals. The CODEC in this chain controls the sampling frequency. Conversely, the path has a fixed data configuration, which is almost guaranteed not to match the format of samples in the wave file. Hence, each audio sample read from file needs to be converted before insertion into the AXI FIFO. 

The AXI FIFO expects samples as 32-bit words interleaved stereo. This means, the first 32-bit word is the first sample for the left channel, the second 32-bit word is the first sample for the right channel. The following table illustrates the format for 2 stereo samples: 

| Word | AXI Input (32bit  each)
|-|-------------
|1|Sample 1 Left
|2| Sample 1 Right
|3| Sample 2 Left
|4| Sample 2 Right

While the AXI FIFO has a 32-bit interface, the CODEC operates on 24 bits. The CODEC interpretes the upper 24 bits, the lower 8 bits are ignored. You need to implement how to convert the audio samples from the file into the AXI FIFO format.

Complete the following steps:

1. Implement the ```audio_word_from_buf``` function, which converts a sample read from a wav file to a 32-bit sample in the CODEC format. Convert according to the sample information contained in the header (i.e. bits per sample).

2. Implement the ```play_wave_samples``` function, which reads samples from a file, starting and stopping at certain points, depending on the arguments passed to it. Make sure that independently of the number of channels (1 or 2) in the opened file, you transmit the data in the format expected by the CODEC (see above). Simulate playing by using the ```fifo_transmit_word``` function. 

3. As outlined in the TODOs in ```main()```, open the file and play one second of audio from the begining of the file, using ```play_wave_samples``` and stop.

4. Now, play only the last second of audio contained in the file, calling ```play_wave_samples``` with the appropriate arguments.

5. Cleanup any resources used before exiting the program.

Commit (reference the issue in the commit message), and close the issue.
