## User-mode Player

In this section we will play sounds using the audio codec on the board.
In the pre-lab, you already have implemented code that simulates this
functionality, by pushing data samples to the hardware FIFO.

Writing to the audio output FIFO bears challenges due to real-time
constraints. Audio samples have to be written within a regular time,
otherwise distortion will be audible.

Now, we will add a few more required steps to actually be able to play
sound on the board, as the codec must be properly configured before it
is ready for playback. This configuration is handled mostly
automatically by standard kernel drivers that are already in place.
However, some initialization is required, in order to set the correct
playback parameters such as sample rate. We also have to enable the I2S
controller before sending samples.

Use your pre-lab code as a starting point and reference and complete the
following tasks:

1.  In your repo, create a directory `usermode-hw-player` for the
    player that directly interfaces with the hardware from usermode.
    Select one of your pre-lab codes as a starting point. 
    Add and commit unmodified code as a starting point.

    - Create README.md as project description (see #3) and 
      attribute the starting source author and reason about  your choice. 

2.  Memory-map the AXI FIFO’s register space and initialize it
    correctly.

    **HINT:** Use the libzed (introduced in lab2) to do the memory
    mapping and register reading/writing, to avoid wasting time with
    mistakes in manually doing these operations. Update the Makefile
    accordingly and list the dependency in the project’s README.

3.  Create two functions, `int i2s_enable_tx(void)` and
    `int i2s_disable_tx(void)`, that respectively enable and disable the
    TX portion of the I2S controller. Those functions should:

    1.  Open the file
        `/sys/devices/soc0/amba_pl/77600000.axi_i2s_adi/tx_enabled` and
        write either a “0” to disable or a “1” to enable the I2S
        controller. Note: write a character value, not an integer value.

    2.  Returns 0 on success, or negative values otherwise.

    **HINT:** When doing file operations, always close the file handler
    properly after you finish operating on the file, to avoid problems.

4.  Correctly configure the CODEC before starting playback by using the
    ALSA Library functions as follows:

    1.  Merge the minimal example code with your
        current code to start.

      
        This is the minimal code example for usage of the ALSA library to correctly configure the CODEC. See the TODOs in the code and follow the assignment on how to implement those.

        ```c
        #include <alsa/asoundlib.h>

        #define SND_CARD "default"

        int configure_codec(unsigned int sample_rate, 
                            snd_pcm_format_t format, 
                            snd_pcm_t* handle,
                            snd_pcm_hw_params_t* params)
        {
        int err;
        
        // initialize parameters 
        err = snd_pcm_hw_params_any(handle, params);
        if (err < 0)
        {
            // failed, handle and return...
        }
        
        // TODO: set format
        // NOTE: the codec only supports one audio format, this should be constant
        //       and not read from the WAVE file. You must convert properly to this 
        //       format, regardless of the format in your WAVE file 
        //       (bits per sample and alignment).
        
        // TODO: set channel count
        
        // TODO: set sample rate
        
        // TODO: write parameters to device
        
        return 0;
        }

        int main(void)
        {
        snd_pcm_t *handle;
        snd_pcm_hw_params_t *hwparams;
        int err;
        // placeholder variables, use values you read from your WAVE file
        unsigned int sample_rate;
        snd_pcm_format_t sound_format;
        
        // TODO read WAVE file, find out parameters, etc (from pre-lab 4a)
        
        // allocate HW parameter data structures
        snd_pcm_hw_params_alloca(&hwparams);
        
        // open device (TX)
        err = snd_pcm_open(&handle, SND_CARD, SND_PCM_STREAM_PLAYBACK, 0);
        if (err < 0)
        {
            // failed, handle...
        }
        
        err = configure_codec(sample_rate, sound_format, handle, hwparams);
        if (err < 0)
        {
            // failed, handle...
        }
        
        // TODO do rest of initialization (from pre-lab 4a)
        // TODO play sound (from pre-lab 4a)
        
        snd_pcm_close(handle);
        
        // TODO do rest of cleanup
        return 0;
        }
        ```

    2.  Start implementing the `codec_setup function`: set the sample
        format with the  
        [`snd_pcm_hw_params_set_format`](https://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/alsa-lib/group___p_c_m___h_w___params.html#ga6014e0e1ec7934f8c745290e83e59199)
        function. The I2S controller driver supports only two formats:
        *Unsigned* or *Signed* 32-bit *little endian*. Choose a format
        and implement the sound player accordingly.

    3.  Set the channel count with the
        [`snd_pcm_hw_params_set_channels`](https://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/alsa-lib/group___p_c_m___h_w___params.html#ga3a5b2a05c5d9869cc743dac71c0d270a)
        function to use 2 channels (stereo) as this is fixed by the I2S
        controller.

    4.  Set the sample rate with the
        [`snd_pcm_hw_params_set_rate_near`](https://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/alsa-lib/group___p_c_m___h_w___params.html#ga39124280d06ce63092a77e3f25ddd6ee)
        function. Note that due to clock sources and clock dividers, the
        exact requested sampling rate may not be obtainable. While the
        function indicates success, the approximate (effective) sampling
        rate might be different from the requested rate. Compare these
        two. Report and reason about the findings.

    5.  Finally, write the configuration to the hardware with the
        [`snd_pcm_hw_params`](https://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/alsa-lib/group___p_c_m.html#ga1ca0dc120a484965e26cabf966502330)
        function.

5.  Play sound using your current implementation. Ensure that you enable
    the I2S controller by calling `i2s_enable_tx` and also configure the
    CODEC with `codec_setup` before playing samples.

6.  Verify what happens to audio playback if the FIFO vacancy check is
    disabled before writing to the AXI FIFO. What do you hear? Report on
    your observations in the Design Discussion section of your README.


Reflect in this issue on implementation challenges, design decisions 
and observations. Close the issue.

